Each record in a file has a unique identifier called a record id, or rid for
short. An rid ha.'3 the property that we can identify the disk address of the
page containing the record by using the rid.

Data is read into memory for processing, and written to disk for persistent
storage, by a layer of software called the buffer manager. When the files and
access methods layer (which we often refer to as just the file layer) needs to
process a page, it asks the buffer manager to fetch the page, specifying the
page's rid. The buffer manager fetches the page from disk if it is not already
in memory.
Space on disk is managed by the disk space m,anager, according to the DBMS
software architecture described in Section 1.8. When the files and access meth-
ods layer needs additional space to hold new records in a file, it asks the disk
space manager to allocate an additional disk page for the file; it also informs
the disk space manager when it no longer needs one of its disk pages. The disk
space manager keeps track of the pages in use by the file layer; if a page is freed
by the file layer, the space rnanager tracks this, and reuses the space if the file
layer requests a new page later on.


data entry: records stored in an index file, contains enough information to locate data records. Denoted as k* with search key value k.

Three ALTERNATIVES for what to store as a data entry in an index:
1. A data entry k* is an actual data record (with search key value k).
2. A data entry is a (k, rid) pair, where rid is the record id of a data record
with search key value k.
3. A data entry is a (k. rid-list) pair, where rid-list is a list of record ids of
data records with search key value k.

CLUSTERED: When a file is organized so that the ordering of data records is the same as
or close to the ordering of data entries in some index, we say that the index
is clustered;

In our comparison of file organizations, and in later chapters, we use a simple
cost model that allows us to estimate the cost (in terms of execution time) of
different database operations. We use B to denote the number of data pages
when records are packed onto pages with no wasted space, and R to denote
the number of records per page. The average time to read or write a disk
page is D, and the average time to process a record (e.g., to compare a field
value to a selection constant) is C. In the ha.'3hed file organization, we use a
function, called a hash function, to map a record into a range of numbers; the
time required to apply the hash function to a record is H. For tree indexes, we
will use F to denote the fan-out,
CLUSTERED: When a file is organized so that the ordering of data records is the same as
or close to the ordering of data entries in some index, we say that the index
is clustered;
